# Epic Card Game - Card Rulings
*Last updated June 6th 2017*

#### AMNESIA
- A player can target their own discard pile. If they do, they will not be able to Recycle.
- Does not count as playing a {1} cost card, even if the {1} ability is chosen.

#### ANCIENT CHANT
- Will trigger no matter how it leaves the discard pile.

#### ANGEL OF DEATH
- This ability does not target, and will break Untargetable champions, but will not work against Unbreakable champions.

#### ANGEL OF MERCY
- If you have no Good champions in your discard pile when your turn begins, this ability will do nothing.

#### ANGELIC PROTECTOR
- May target itself.

#### ANKYLOSAURUS
- This may use the special Gold generated by Brachiosaurus, per errata on Brachiosaurus.

#### APOCALYPSE
- This ability does not target, and will break Untargetable champions, but will not work against Unbreakable champions.

#### ARCANE RESEARCH
- This card is banished along with the other cards that you select before you look at the top X cards. You could indeed find a card that you just banished, assuming your deck has very few cards.

#### AVENGER OF COVENANT
- It doesn’t matter how the champion dealt damage, the Avenger will Avenge.
- A champion would have to deal “damage” (via an ability that uses the word “damage”, or by battle damage from attacking). An ability that causes a player to lose health will not count.
- A champion must deal at least 1 damage for it to be considered damage.

#### AVENGING ANGEL
- It does not matter how Avenging Angel became expended.
- If Avenging Angel is removed, or no longer controlled by you, you may be attacked as normal.
- If Avenging Angel is somehow expended after attackers have been declared, this will not stop the attack.
- In a multiplayer game, this will not prevent other players from being attacked.

#### BANISHMENT
- If played against an Unbanishable champion, this effect will not work. The relevant player will still draw a card.

#### BATTLE CRY
- Champions that enter play, or enter your control, after this card resolves will not get the bonus.

#### BELLOWING MINOTAUR
- Champions that enter play after this effect will not get the +2/+2 bonus.

#### BITTEN
- If played against an Unbreakable champion, this effect will not work. The relevant player will still put a Zombie token into play.

#### BLIND FAITH
- A Champion whose abilities have been taken by this card may gain abilities later this turn from other card effects.
- This does not affect a Champion’s offense or defense, including bonuses from outside effects.
- Will prevent triggers such as “When this card breaks” since the Champion no longer has that ability when it was broken. See also: Warrior Golem

#### BLUE DRAGON
- You must choose a target for this ability. (The opposing player is a pretty good target).

#### BRACHIOSAURUS
- ERRATA:
  - `Tribute → Gain {1}. This may only be used to play wild cards and abilities.`
- Clarifying: Gold from Brachiosaurus may be spent to pay the Gold cost for any Wild card.

#### BRAVE SQUIRE
- The token you put into play is a valid target for the +5 effect.

#### CAVE TROLL
- The Recall ability will not trigger if this card is in play. EXAMPLE: If Cave Troll is in play, and the controller plays Hurricane, the Cave Troll ability will not trigger because it was in play when the Hurricane was played.

#### CEASEFIRE
- Any Champion that is attacking will still be attacking.
- Since the first time you gain initiative to play cards on your opponent’s turn is after their first attacker is declared, there is no way to prevent your opponent from attacking once with this card.

#### CHAMBERLAIN KARK
- You may order the triggered abilities as you like.
- You may only reveal cards for Loyalty triggers if they match an alignment of the champion with the ability.
- Your starting health total does not count Health paid for Mulligans. In a regular two-player game, starting health is 30.
- If you control Dark Leader when Kark enters play, you may reveal both Good and Evil cards for Loyalty.

#### CHOMP!
- Dinosaur Champions that enter play, or enter your control, after this card resolves will not get the bonus.

#### CITADEL RAVEN
- You must target a card when you attack. If you do not, the trigger is missed.

#### CLEANSING LIGHT
- You can play this card without any token champions in play. You will still draw two cards.

#### CONSUME
- You may play this with no legal targets available. If you do so, you will still gain 3 Health. Bon Appetit!

#### CORPSE TAKER
- The targeted champion must cost {1} or it cannot be chosen for the Tribute ability.
- If you do not have a valid target for the Tribute effect, it will do nothing.

#### COURAGEOUS SOUL
- Champions that enter play, or come under your control, after the power resolves, will not gain the +2 bonus.

#### CRYSTAL GOLEM
- You must use the power on the card to break it in order to get the effect. It will not trigger if the card is broken any other way.
- You may use this card's ability any time you may play an event.

#### DARK KNIGHT
- Cannot be broken on your turn for any reason.

#### DARK LEADER
- Your other human champions become Evil, but also retain their original alignment. A champion can be both good and evil.
- Your human champions are not Evil until they are actually in play, so if you play a good Human champion it will trigger good ally abilities but not evil ally abilities.
- If you play a human champion that has a Loyalty ability, that champion will be both good and evil at the same time when the loyalty ability triggers. You may reveal a mix of both good and evil cards for Loyalty in this case.

#### DARK OFFERING
- If you choose an unbreakable Champion, you get nothing. NOTHING!

#### DEADLY RAID
- Champions that enter play, or come under your control, after the effect resolves, will not gain the unblockable +2 bonus.

#### DEMONIC RISING
- Demons that enter play after this resolves will not be affected by this card.
- If a Demon is broken this way, it will be replaced by another (prepared) Demon. This will be considered to be a whole new Demon, with new hopes and dreams, and a completely different backstory.

#### DRAKA, DRAGON TYRANT
- The attack trigger does not target.

#### DRAKA’S ENFORCER
- Draka does not negotiate.

#### DRAKA’S FIRE
- This effect does not target.

#### DRAIN ESSENCE
- If the targeted champion has less than 9 defense, you still gain 9 health.
- You may play this card with no champions in play, or with only untargetable champions in play. You will still gain 9 health.

#### DRINKER OF BLOOD
- Cannot be broken on your turn for any reason.
- It doesn’t matter how another champion is broken. This power will still trigger.
- If Drinker of Blood is broken at the same time as other champions, Drinker's ability won't do anything because it no longer in play.

#### ELDER GREATWURM
- This champion may gain or lose offence or defence, it just can’t gain rules text, abilities, or powers.
- This is an ability, and may be removed by Blind Faith.
- This champion may gain counters that affect its offense and defense.

#### ERASE
- The targeted champion may be played again as long as the controller has the resources and ability to play it.
- The champion goes back to the owner’s hand, i.e. the player that started the game with it in their deck.

#### FAITHFUL PEGASUS
- This does not let a Champion ignore attack restrictions. If you use this ability on a Deploying Champion, it will gain Airborne but it will not be able to attack. Similarly, this will not allow a Flipped or Expended Champion to block.
- If this attacks with a human Champion, and the Pegasus is removed from play, the Human will be unaffected. Try not to picture this.

#### FAIRY TRICKSTER
- If you don’t play the revealed card immediately (i.e. before passing initiative or performing another game action), it is banished.
- You do not have to obey timing restrictions when playing a card with this ability. For example, if you reveal a non-Ambush Champion, you may play it during your opponent’s turn.

#### FEINT
- There does not have to be a battle in order to play this card. If played outside of a battle, it will simply draw two cards.

#### FINAL TASK
- If an unbreakable champion is chosen, it will not break at the end of the turn and will remain under the player’s control.

#### FIRE SHAMAN
- Must be in play when a {1} card is played in order to use the “3 damage” power.

#### FIREBALL
- Does not count as playing a {1} cost card, even if the {1} ability is chosen.

#### FIRES OF REBELLION
- If you choose the second option, you will see the card you draw before you choose which champion to target.

#### FLASH FIRE
- Does not count as playing a {1} cost card, even if the {1} ability is chosen.

#### FORBIDDEN RESEARCH
- You cannot break an unbreakable champion to activate recall.

#### FORCED EXILE
- If played targeting an unbanishable champion, the target will not be banished but two human tokens would still occur.

#### FORCEMAGE APPRENTICE
- Must be in play when a {1} card is played in order to use the “prepare” power.

#### FORCE FIELD
- The second and third effects will affect Untargetable champions.

#### FRANTIC DIGGING
- If you have no cards in hand after playing this, you do not have to discard. You may still draw a card.

#### FROST GIANT
- This ability does not target champions, so it will affect untargetable champions.

#### FUMBLE
- If this drops a Champion’s offense to a negative number, the Champion will deal 0 damage in battle. If an effect would later add to that Champion’s offense, it would be added to the negative value.

#### GLADIUS, THE DEFENDER
- The first ability is continuous, and will stack with similar abilities.
- ERRATA: The first ability should read `Your other good champions have +3 {offense}.`
- If you have two copies of Gladius in play, each will give +3 Offense to the other. Every other Good champion you control will get +6 Offense.

#### GOLD DRAGON
- If this breaks in combat due to battle damage, with other good champions controlled by the same player, the other champions will still have Righteousness when damage is dealt, and the controlling player will still gain health.

#### GREAT HORNED LIZARD
- Dinosaur Champions that enter play (or enter your control) after this card resolves will not get the bonus.

#### GUILT DEMON
- The ability is not mandatory.

#### HANDS FROM BELOW
- If played outside of a battle phase, it will just make two Zombie tokens.

#### HASTY RETREAT
- Once a champion deals battle damage, it is no longer considered to be attacking, and will not be a valid target for this card.
- Does not count as playing a {1} cost card, even if the {1} ability is chosen.

#### HELION, THE DOMINATOR
- If you gain control of an expended Champion, it will remain expended unless something prepares it.
- You may target a champion you control with this ability. It will gain Blitz.

#### HELION’S FURY
- If played on an opponent’s turn, it will just draw two cards.

#### HILL GIANT
- Is small for a giant.

#### HUNTING PACK
- This effect will count every Wolf you have in play (any Champion with Wolf on the type line, including Wolf Tokens) after you put three Wolf Tokens in play. The minimum damage this Event will deal is 6.
- You must choose a target, but you don’t have to have it take any damage.

#### HUNTING PTEROSAUR
- The tribute ability checks current defence, not printed defence.

#### ICE DRAKE
- This ability does not target champions, so it will affect untargetable champions.

#### INFERNAL GATEKEEPER
- The ability is not mandatory.

#### INHERITANCE OF THE MEEK
- This ability does not target champions, so it will affect untargetable champions. Unbanishable champions will ignore this effect.

#### INNER DEMON
- If played against an Unbreakable champion, this effect will not work. The relevant player will still gain a demon token.

#### INSURGENCY
- Champions that enter play, or enter your control, after this card resolves will not get the bonus.

#### JUGGERNAUT
- Cannot be broken on your turn for any reason.

#### JUNGLE QUEEN
- Does not grant the Ambush ability to cards in your hand. This ability will work with Elder Greatwurm.

#### JUSTICE PREVAILS
- This will affect Untargetable champions.
- If a champion gains Righteous more than once, it will have no additional effect.

#### KNIGHT OF ELARA
- Blocking champions will be transformed before damage is dealt, so plan your blocks accordingly.
- Untargetable champions will be affected by this ability since it doesn’t target.

#### KONG
- If there are no other legal targets, it will target itself with the tribute power.

#### LASH
- If an attacking champion breaks from this damage, it will not deal battle damage.

#### LIGHTNING STORM
- You must choose at least one target if available. Each target you choose must have at least 1 damage assigned to it.

#### LORD OF THE ARENA
- This card only needs to be blocked by a champion, not all available champions.

#### MARKUS, WATCH CAPTAIN
- Any discard effect controlled by an opponent will count for this effect.
- The ability is mandatory. If this card is discarded to an opponent’s effect, it will enter play.

#### MEMORY SPIRIT
- If there are no valid targets for the tribute power, it will do nothing.

#### MIST GUIDE HERALD
- You do not have to choose anything.

#### MURDEROUS NECROMANCER
- If played against an Unbreakable champion, this effect will not work. The relevant player will still put a Zombie token into play.

#### MUSE
- This ability is not mandatory.

#### NECROMANCER LORD
- Any champion put into play with this ability is permanent, though if sent a player’s hand, discard pile, or deck, it will be diverted to that of its owner.

#### NEW DAWN
- Any triggered effects (such as loyalty or tribute) will wait until the effect resolves in order to trigger. All triggered abilities will resolve starting with the player whose turn it is and moving clockwise. All of these abilities will resolve, even if the champion that generated it is no longer in play. (Example: Both players put a Medusa into play. The first player reveals loyalty and chooses to break the second Medusa. The second Medusa ability now resolves and the player may opt to reveal loyalty and break the first Medusa.)

#### NO ESCAPE
- The second ability may target an Unbreakable champion. The champion would not break, but the second part of the effect would still happen normally.
- A champion broken by this card may also be rescued from the discard pile via the second effect (assuming it is in the relevant player’s discard pile).
- You may play this card with no legal targets in play just to return a Champion from the discard pile.

#### NOBLE UNICORN
- This ability is mandatory.

#### OGRE MERCENARY
- If you do not have at least two cards in your discard pile when this enters play, this ability does nothing.

#### OWL FAMILIAR
- The card you return must have {1} in the top right corner.

#### PALACE GUARD
- This ability is not mandatory

#### PLAGUE
- If you do not have at least two cards in your discard pile when you play this card, the recycle ability will do nothing.

#### PLAGUE ZOMBIES
- The ability granted to the zombie tokens will stack with similar effects. For example, if a player managed to play two copies of Plague Zombies on the same turn, each zombie token would have this ability twice, and would deal 4 damage when it was broken. (2 damage twice, which could hit different targets if desired.)

#### PLENTIFUL DEAD
- Requires a {1} card to be played in order to trigger.

#### PRIESTESS OF ANGELINE
- Must be in play when a {1} card is played in order to use the “3 health” power.

#### PSIONIC ASSAULT
- Cards are discarded after both players are done playing or using cards.

#### QUELL
- If it’s your turn, you can still play the top half.

#### RAGE
- Does not count as playing a {1} cost card, even if the {1} ability is chosen.

#### RAGING T-REX
- If this card in unable to be declared as an attacker {ie, is expended or deploying}, nothing will happen.

#### RALLY THE PEOPLE
- The Human token you put into play will get the +1 offense.

#### RAIN OF FIRE
- When this card resolves, you must choose three targets if you are able. Otherwise choose as many targets as you can. Players can also be chosen as targets! The first target will take 3 damage, the second will take 4 damage.

#### RAXXA’S CURSE
- If there are no other (0) champions in play, you must choose the Demon token.

#### RAXXA’S ENFORCER
- The first ability is a continuous ability.
- The first ability will stack with other similar effects. For example, two Raxxa’s Enforcers will give -6 Offense.

#### REAP OR SOW
- If it’s your turn, you can still play the top half.

#### REVOLT
- Champions that enter play, or enter your control, after this card resolves will not get the bonus.

#### RESURRECTION
- Only cards broken this turn may be chosen.
- This will trigger Tribute and Loyalty.

#### REUSABLE KNOWLEDGE
- You draw the card before you choose a card in your discard pile.

#### RIFT SUMMONER
- If you don’t break a champion, the second ability will do nothing.

#### RITUAL SACRIFICE
- The tribute ability checks current defence, not printed defence.

#### SAVAGE UPRISING
- It’s a giant ape punching a dinosaur. Yes that is the coolest thing you’ve ever seen, and yes there will be playmats.

#### SCARROS, HOUND OF DRAKA
- You may only reveal cards for Loyalty triggers if they match an alignment of the champion with the ability.

#### SCRAP GOLEM
- The token copies can’t gain the Loyalty effect because they weren’t played from your hand.
- The copies are all named Scrap Golem.
- Token copies reflect the printed values and text on the card, not current values. (Example: A player plays Rage on Scrap Golem, then activates the power. The token copy will be 6/6, not 10/10 with breakthrough)

#### SEA HYDRA
- The counters will only be placed after both players have opted to not play any further cards or powers.

#### SEA TITAN
- A token champion returning to its owner’s hand will be diverted to the token pile.

#### SEARING BLAST
- Health gain effects are ignored, but players may still play them.

#### SHADOW IMP
- Must be in play when the Ally trigger resolves in order to go back to your hand.

#### SIREN’S SONG
- You may target an expended champion.
- The change of control is permanent. The opponent can steal it back with their own effects. (You still give it back when the game is over. You’re a Siren, not a thief.)

#### SOUL HUNTER
- It does not matter which player broke the card, or how it was broken. It will deal 5 damage to a player when it breaks.

#### SPIKE TRAP
- This effect does not target.

#### SPITE
- You can name any number. If you lose more than your health total, you will lose the game.

#### SPORE BEAST
- Removing a champion from battle means that it is no longer attacking or blocking, but any effects that trigger when the champion attacks or blocks (such as Courageous Soul’s ability) will still be in effect.
- You may target a champion with this ability at any time, even when it’s not in a battle, but it won’t do anything. That champion may still be declared as an attacker or blocker later in the turn.

#### STAND ALONE
- Unbreakable champions will not be affected by this card.

#### STANDARD BEARER
- If you have two copies of Standard Bearer in play, they will grant each other +2 offense, and each other champion +4 offense.

#### SUCCUBUS
- You may draw a card from Tribute before revealing cards for Loyalty.

#### SURPRISE ATTACK
- You do not have to put a champion into play, even if you have one.

#### TELEPORT
- The champion is treated as a new game object, so tribute and loyalty abilities will trigger, and all damage and effects will no longer apply.
- If played on an attacking champion, it will be removed from combat.
- The player that plays teleport decides whether or not the champion is expended or prepared with blitz.

#### TEMPORAL SHIFT
- The player that banishes a card from their hand does not need to reveal it.

#### THOUGHT PLUCKER
- This card has been issued errata to clean up the wording. This does not alter the intended function.
- ERRATA:
```
Tribute → Target opponent discards a card. You draw a card.

When this card damages a player → That player discards a card. You draw a card.
```
- You still draw a card even if your opponent cannot discard a card.
- The Tribute ability targets a player, but the damage ability does not.

#### THRASHER DEMON
- Unbreakable champions will ignore this effect.

#### THUNDARUS
- If you have multiple copies of Thundarus in play, they will grant each other the +5/+5 bonus.

#### TIME BENDER
- A {0} champion will have a {0} cost in the top right corner.
- A token champion returning to its owner’s hand will be diverted to the token pile.

#### TIME MASTER
- You can gain more than 1 gold per turn, but you will lose all unspent gold at the end of the turn.

#### TIME WALKER
- A token champion returning to its owner’s hand will be diverted to the token pile.

#### TRANSFORM
- ERRATA:
```
Draw two cards.

— OR —

Transform target champion into a wolf token.

(Put it on the bottom of its owner’s deck. Its controller puts a wolf token into play.)
```
- The printed version of this card referred to “banishing” the target. That no longer happens.
- These new wolf tokens are deploying.

#### TRIHORROR
- It doesn’t matter how this card is broken. Demons will occur.

#### TURN
- The second option does not grant Blitz, but it will be a permanent control change.
- If you take control of a champion that has been granted a temporary power or ability (via Loyalty for example), it will still have that power or ability.
- Does not trigger Loyalty or Tribute since the champion is not coming into play, it is merely changing sides.
- When a champion enters play on your side, it gains Deploying until the start of your next turn. If you use the first option, the champion will have Blitz and will ignore this. If you use the second option, it will not.

#### UNQUENCHABLE THIRST
- X is equal to the number of Evil cards that you banish from your discard pile. That number can be zero.
- You cannot banish this card to its own rules text since it isn’t in the discard pile until it is done resolving.
- You may deal more damage than is necessary if you want to banish more cards and/or gain more health.

#### VAMPIRE LORD
- The counters are placed after this champion deals damage and receives battle damage.

#### VELDEN, FROST TITAN
- You may only reveal cards for Loyalty triggers if they match an alignment of the champion with the ability.

#### VILLAGE PROTECTOR
- Damage dealt to this card is completely prevented if the controller has a human token in play. This means that Righteous will not give health, and champions like Vampire Lord would not gain counters.

#### VITAL MISSION
- You can play this on an Unbanishable champion. It won’t be banished, but the other effects will still happen.

#### WAR MACHINE
- This may affect Untargetable champions.

#### WARRIOR GOLEM
- You may recycle this card to its own ability, since it after going to the discard pile.
- If Warrior Golem breaks after being affected by a card like Blind Faith, the discard pile ability will still trigger.

#### WAVE OF TRANSFORMATION
- ERRATA:

```
Draw two cards.

— OR —

Transform each champion into a wolf token.
```
- If a wolf token is transformed, it will be replaced by a different Wolf token. (Players may obviously use the same Wolf token, but the game considers this to be a different game object.)
- These new wolf tokens are deploying.

#### WINDS OF CHANGE
- The top part of this card may affect Untargetable Champions.

#### WINGED DEATH
- Each affected player must break a Champion if able. You cannot choose an Unbreakable champion unless there is no other choice.
- Untargetable Champions may be chosen.

#### WITHER
- This card will affect all champions with the same name, even if they are controlled by different players.

#### WOLF COMPANION
- It doesn’t matter how this card leaves your discard pile, you will still get a wolf token.

#### WOLF’S BITE
- If there are no other (0) champions in play, you must choose the Wolf token.

#### WORD OF SUMMONING
- You cannot recycle this card to its own ability since it won’t be in the discard pile until it is done resolving.

#### ZANNOS, CORPSE LORD
- You may only reveal cards for Loyalty triggers if they match an alignment of the champion with the ability.
- The amount of health gained is not linked to the amount of health your opponents lose. If you have three opponents, and you reveal 4 cards for loyalty, each opponent will lose 4 health, and you will gain 4 health total.

#### ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE
- Token champions that are broken will be diverted to the Token pile, and will not count as being in the discard pile.


> © 2016 White Wizard Games LLC
>
> Permission granted to copy, print, and distribute with no changes and for no fee.
> 
> Thank you for playing Epic!
